# Group4_NFLX_MIDTERM

US Energy

Presentation: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1FDUG3apsEg5yNdJTyvKmiwdDbG1L8-20SVkzLwzZmEM/edit?usp=sharing

The purpose of our project is to figure out US energy trends to see what needs to be changed in the country to help save the planet and create a positive trend in the world. 

The questions that our team will answer are:
	1. How has energy generation varied from 2001 to 2021?
	2. How much has energy generation varied between states from 2001 to 2021?
	3.What type of energy source do various producers use the most?
	4. How has energy source changed over time?
	5. How much total energy has each state produce?
	6. How does energy generation differ by each season?

---

# Analysis #1: Total Energy Generated From 2001 - 2021

There was a fast increase in energy generation from 2001 to 2007. The average energy generated from 2001 to 2022 was about 4.05 billion MWH. Energy generation decreased under the average in 2009, which was during the financial crisis. It also decreased in 2020 during the COVID-19 pandemic.

---

# Analysis #2: Total Energy Generated by State from 2001 - 2021

Since 2001, Texas leads the chart on energy generation by far. There are a few states that are still high producers but most states don't generate a lot of energy. 

---

# Analysis #3: Energy by Producer

Electric Generators, both Independent Power Producers and Electric Utilities are the greatest producers of renewable energy. These two producers also exhibited the greatest change over time in total renewable energy production. 

---

# Analysis #4: Energy Source by State

Texas produces more electricity than any other state, generating nearly twice as much as second-place Florida, with most of it coming from natural gas, followed by coal. Other high producing states are CA, PA, IL. These states all produce over 4B MWH of energy. Throughout most of the states, coal and natural gas are the largest source for energy. 

---

# Analysis #5: Energy Source Over Time

There is a big decline in the use of coal for energy generation from 2001 to 2021. It has decreased a little more than 50% in the last 20 years. On the other hand, we see an increase in the use of natural gas, which is still a non renewable energy source. These 2 sources have been the biggest contributors to energy generation, but nuclear has been holding steady at around 0.75B MWH. Some trends that look promising for the use of renewable energy is wind. Wind energy has increased quite a bit. We can also see the start of a positive trend for solar energy towards 2020. Hopefully, in the next coming years, we can see these trends for renewable energy continue. 

---

# Analysis #6: Energy Generation by Season

Natural gases and coal are especially generated in the summer time. Summer and winter have the most energy produced overall. 

---

# Conclusion

Most energy is still being produced from non renewable sources, but there is an increase in renewable energy. Renewables are time based like wind and solar. These are difficult to store, making the grid harder to use them. We can do automation for the grid to get cleanest resource with good demand. Estimates say Texas emissions could decrease by 20% by coordinating with what devices need power (like electric cars, heaters, etc). This could save 6 million tons of carbon dioxide from being released.

